---
title: 'Greenwich'
date: '2023-03-23'
updated: '2023-12-16'
categories:
  - '2023'
  - 'England'
  - 'Greenwich'

coverImage: '/images/2023/03/1600/2023-03-18-183603.jpg'
coverWidth: 16
coverHeight: 9
excerpt: Visiting my dear old mum in London for a few weeks...
---

<script>
	import Callout from '$lib/components/Callout.svelte'
</script>

<svelte:head>

<title>2023 UK</title>
</svelte:head>

<section class="card">  
  <p>
      I'm visiting my dear old mum for a few weeks, before heading out on a spring slow-cycling-senior trip. A solo trip for the most part but I’ll be joined by Bev for a few weeks in May and June. <span class="entity"> &#128516;</span>
  </p>
  
<p>  Travelling alone usually rekindles my enthusiasm for blogging and hopefully this will again be the case. I’m returning to WordPress since it seems to be the most feature-rich of the mobile apps. I will have a laptop with me but, for quick updates in the tent before sleep, mobile is handy.</p>
  
  <Callout>
    <strong>16th December, 2023</strong> I'm currently transitioning this blog away from WordPress and using a 'static site.' If you see this, WP is gone. There will now be no 'quick and handy' blog updates from my phone but I didn't end up doing that anyway. I need the computer to process my photos and I can update the blog at that time. We'll see... The main advantage of this static site is that it is quicker to view, and can be hosted for free. There is no functionality for comments, though.
  </Callout>
  
<p>  
  Slow Cycling Senior? Well, it does have an alliterative ring to it. I also considered Broken Road Travels, a ‘clever’ title as this blog will describe some of my searches for traffic-free riding off the tarmac as much as possible – and, of course, since my bike is a Broken Road hard-tail bike from Sonder/Alpkit.</p>
  
<p>  
  Many name their bike. I have been calling my Brodie (Broken Road that it is) but the name didn't take. Not as far as I am concerned. I'm now thinking of Alan.</p>
  
<p>  
  Since it is my touring machine. <span class="entity">&#128521;</span></p>
  
<p>  
  Although hard-tail describes a bike with (only) front-suspension, I will be riding fully rigid on this trip, swapping out my usual front fork for a rigid steel one. Just an experiment but I’m not anticipating much rigorous trail riding in my immediate future so it is part of my plan to make the bike as low maintenance as possible. (I recently switched hydraulic brakes for the more old-fashioned mechanical – that is, cable-activated – type. Still a disc brake but easier to repair in the field than hydraulics.)</p>
  
  <enhanced:img
    src="../../../lib/images/2023/03/2023-03-27-164008.jpg"
    alt="a ride along the Thames"
  />
  <div class="caption"> From a pleasant ride alongside the Thames </div>  
  
  The parakeet shown a the top of this page is one of the regular visitors to the tree outside my mum’s London flat. There have been as many as six in the tree at one time. Not native to the area, there are now thought to be 32,000 parakeets in London now, with almost as many theories as to how they came to be here. My favourite has Jimi Hendrix running down the centre of a busy Chelsea road carrying a cage, releasing two birds as he ran.
  
</section>

<section class="card">
  <h5>21st March, 2023.</h5> An entertaining news day ahead. Lying Boris gets to lie about whether he knowingly lied to parliament. (He’s also going to vote against Sunak’s Northern Ireland deal, apparently. If he is still a MP after today?) Donald: will he or won’t he? Wear handcuffs, that is. (The iDJT’s preference is for handcuffs. Did he wear them for Stormy, too, I wonder?) And we should take a moment to think of poor Gwyneth, being sued for skiing into a retired eye doctor and causing him brain damage, in a beginner’s slope hit-and-run. (She was “distracted.” Maybe it’s time to introduce the as yet untested ‘Yoni eggs’ defence?)
</section>

<section class="card">
  <b>3rd April, 2023.</b> On the rare clear days, I have been out for gentle rides to seem how my painful ankle behaves. It's a lingering injury from a fall a year or so ago. It seems easier on the pedal than it is walking on uneven ground.
  <enhanced:img
    src="../../../lib/images/2023/04/phone.png"
    alt="a ride along the Thames"
  />
  <div class="caption"> A mural, on a cycle path in Catford</div>
</section>

<style>

  .caption {
    margin-top: -1.5em;
  }

  </style>
