---
title: 'Colombo'
date: '2024-01-23'
# updated: '2023-12-16'
categories:
  - '2024'
  - 'Colombo'
  - 'Sri Lanka'

coverImage: '/coverImages/2024/2024-01-21-041457.jpg'
coverWidth: 16
coverHeight: 9
excerpt: Finding my feet in Colombo...
---

<script>
	import Callout from '$lib/components/Callout.svelte'
</script>

<svelte:head>

<title>2024 Sri Lanka</title>
</svelte:head>

<section class="card">
  <b>17th January, 2024. Colombo.</b>

  <p>The flight was long but reasonable. I got involved watching most of the first season of Riverdance - a really weird show - and didn't sleep much.</p>

  <p>Entry in Sri Lanka was pretty relaxed. Scan of my passport, scan of my landing slip, and I was through. Not a word from the immigration officer: I guess this event was more exciting for me than it was for him. My bike (not the only one - a couple of other riders were there for a six day tours, a complimentary trip of some sort for sponsored gravel riders?) was ready when I got there so I wandered off to get money.</p>

  <p>Even that was easy. I went to an ATM no other new arrivals were waiting in line for and withdrew 4000/-. I had intended 40.000/- but must have missed a zero. I arranged a taxi (slight pushiness from the touts but nothing like India) and, when I went to pay, I didn't have enough money. 4000/- is less than C$17 which wasn't going to get me very far. Back to the ATM, which this time refused to give me anything on my Wise card or on my Visa. So I got to stand in the line with everyone else. Again my Wise card was declined, most likely because I may have picked the wrong account to withdraw money from - I only have one on the Wise and I was given three options. Money from Visa was no problem and I was soon in the taxi.</p>
<enhanced:img
src="../../../lib/images/2024/01/2024-01-19-032757.jpg"
alt="parrakeets in the Leisure Home garden"
/>
<div class="caption">Regular visitors to the garden at the Leisure Home</div>
<enhanced:img
src="../../../lib/images/2024/01/2024-01-19-033722.jpg"
alt="parrakeets in the Leisure Home garden"
/>
<div class="caption">And then there were four...</div>
<p></p>
<b>21st January, 2024. Colombo.</b><br/>
Took a tuk tuk to the Fort area and walked about, not sure where to go, what to do. I looked at the European clock tower (with what looked like a lighthouse light on top of it) and was approached by my second tout in a few minutes. He told me his name but I don't remember it. He was the bar manager at a hotel he pointed at, but on a break, heading to see a special Buddhist festival starting shortly a few minutes walk away. Lots of elephants!
<p>He dropped beside and we walked for more than a few minutes. Then he looked at his watch and gave the impression we were late for the festival start. Miraculously, just then a tuk tuk parked ahead of us, and my 'friend' told me to get the red tuk tuks because they were on a meter. I, gullibly, allowed myself to get in the tuk tuk after I heard him say "Festival, on the meter!" A kilometre further and I (never one to miss a trick...clearly) knew something was going on.</p> 
<p>We pulled in to a "thousand-years-old" Hindu Temple for me to take a photo. But I said that I didn't want to take a photo, getting annoyed at the direction this "chance" meeting was taking. On to the Buddhist festival, with its many advertised elephants, but first we stopped at the Buddhist temple. My dander was up, having been conned, and said I didn't want to go any further.</p>
<p>This was not good news for the team. How much for the tuk tuk?, I asked the driver. 3,300/- was the reply. "No, that's ridiculous. You said this was on the meter and the driver pointed to his speedometer mileometer. "No that's not a meter. You two are working together." They protested their innocence and I asked my 'friend' to let me out. "1,000 rupees" the driver sullenly demanded, complaining about the cost of fuel. I gave him 500 and a piece of my mind. (For context, the tuk tuk I had taken from my homestay had been about 650/- and was five times the distance.)</p> 
<p>I'd learnt a cheap lesson &ndash; to be always on my guard. And the tuk tuk had cost me C$2.10. Clearly, after almost ten years away from Asia, I need to relearn a few lessons. Luckily, no harm done. Not even to my pride (such as it is these days!)</p>
<p>But I was outside the temple so in I went.</p>
<div class="w-80">
  <enhanced:img
    src="../../../lib/images/2024/01/2024-01-21-040322.jpg"
    alt="part of the Buddhist temple"
  />
</div>
<enhanced:img
  src="../../../lib/images/2024/01/2024-01-21-040832.jpg"
  alt="inside the Buddhist temple"
/>
<!-- <enhanced:img
  src="../../../lib/images/2024/01/2024-01-21-040949.jpg"
  alt="inside the Buddhist temple"
/> -->
<enhanced:img
  src="../../../lib/images/2024/01/2024-01-21-041457.jpg"
  alt="inside the Buddhist temple"
/>
<p>And just a few steps from the temple, there was indeed an elephant!</p>
<enhanced:img
  src="../../../lib/images/2024/01/2024-01-21-041804.jpg"
  alt="inside the Buddhist temple"
/>
<p>I wandered slowly back in the direction of the fort. Some interesting architecture and a lovely old banyan tree along the way.</p>
<enhanced:img
  src="../../../lib/images/2024/01/2024-01-21-043440.jpg"
  alt="inside the Buddhist temple"
/>
<enhanced:img
  src="../../../lib/images/2024/01/2024-01-21-043610.jpg"
  alt="inside the Buddhist temple"
/>
<p>I saw the Hindu temple one block to the right. This time I was happy to get my camera out.</p>
<div class="w-90">
  <enhanced:img
    src="../../../lib/images/2024/01/2024-01-21-045453.jpg"
    alt="inside the Buddhist temple"
  />
</div>
<enhanced:img
    src="../../../lib/images/2024/01/2024-01-21-050059.jpg"
    alt="inside the Buddhist temple"
  />

</section>

<style>
  .caption {
    margin-top: -1.5em;
  }
  p {
    margin: 0;
    margin-top: 1em;
  }
  img + p
  {
    border: 3px solid red;
  }
</style>
