---
title: 'South, to Galle'
date: '2024-01-29'
# updated: '2023-12-16'
categories:
  - '2024'
  - 'Broken Road'
  - 'Colombo'
  - 'Cycle Touring'
  - 'Galle'
  - 'Sri Lanka'

coverImage: '/coverImages/2024/20240125-225317.jpg'
coverWidth: 16
coverHeight: 9
excerpt: Out on the bike...
---

<script>
	import Callout from '$lib/components/Callout.svelte'
</script>

<svelte:head>

<title>2024 Sri Lanka</title>
</svelte:head>

<section class="card">
<h5>
  	24th January, 2024
  	<br /> Colombo to Panadura
  </h5>
  (31.5 km, 114 m, 49.9 km to date)

Not the earliest of starts &ndash; but when are they? I had to wait until 10:00 am for breakfast to be served but I wasn't going far so it wasn't a concern. Mild nerves before setting out, as is usual. But not having a fixed destination for the trip (apart from back to Colombo in three weeks to meet my wife at the airport!) and no real plans seems to be successful in removing the worst of the stress. I'm just going for a ride in the sun! Ha.

Half-an-hour pretty much due west brought to the ocean, and a left turn had me heading south. Busy with traffic but not too worrying. Drawn out urban areas but generally with the bright blue water close by on my right. Hot but bearable. The bike seems fine and I appreciated having less than my usual load. 40 lb less? Maybe.

It all feels very familiar: on a bike, in Asia. The traffic is quieter, and the vehicles more modern than in India. No vehicles with "Sound Horn" signs on the back (those signs really seem to work, too). No piles of stinking garbage either, not so much abject poverty, and nothing dramatically unfamiliar.

About three hours and 30 km in, I had covered the distance I'd hoped for the day. No negative feedback from my ankle or knees. I went a little past Panadura in search of comfortable digs; since it was still early, I rode to the hotel I had my eyes on without booking ahead. No problem. A somewhat over-the-top new hotel (with obvious signs of future ambitions to extend upwards) was happy to accommodate me for the reasonable fee of US$20. The room, up one floor (a test that my knees passed) was spacious and spotless.

Apparently 50 rooms but I counted fewer, about a third of that, and as yet I am the only guest. Chef, manager and two or three kitchen help weren't going to get far on my $20.

<p>I spent a couple of hours horizontal on the bed, enjoying the AC, but with the sun beginning to get lower I walked out towards the beach, thirty or forty yards away on the other side of the railway tracks.</p>
<enhanced:img
  src="../../../lib/images/2024/01/20240124-052023.jpg"
  alt="The beach between Panadura and Wadduwa"
/>
<enhanced:img
  src="../../../lib/images/2024/01/20240124-052106.jpg"
  alt="The beach between Panadura and Wadduwa"
/>

<p>As far as I could tell from the passing trains (they were fairly regular), they were almost full but with plenty of room available. A couple at the Leisure Home had been unable to reserve a seat on the train at short notice so settled on the bus; it looked like the train would be fine.</p>
<enhanced:img
  src="../../../lib/images/2024/01/20240124-052310.jpg"
  alt="The beach between Panadura and Wadduwa"
/>
<div class="caption">Locals enjoying the beach and water at the end of a hot day</div>

<p>I stayed for the sunset which was not spectacular, disappearing into haze before reaching the horizon.</p>
<enhanced:img
  src="../../../lib/images/2024/01/20240124-053252.jpg"
  alt="The beach between Panadura and Wadduwa"
/>
<enhanced:img
src="../../../lib/images/2024/01/20240124-053948.jpg"
alt="The beach between Panadura and Wadduwa"
/>

<p>Even with the sun almost gone, it was hot. Sitting quietly and still, I could feel the trickles of sweat creeping down my face and back.</p>
</section>

<section class="card">
<h5>
  	25th January, 2024
  	<br /> Panadura to Ahungalla
  </h5>
  (49.3 km, 142 m, 99.2 km to date)

There were a couple of faces peering around hotel doors (late arrivals, I presume) when I headed down for breakfast but I was (again) alone in the large banquet hall.

I wonder at the rationale for building new, expensive buildings this close (four or five metres) to sea-level. Sea level rise is accelerating and the ice in Greenland melts more and more quickly. And a significant calving of ice off Antartica could make for a rapid, catastrophic event. The whole coast here, including Colombo, are at risk of inundation. No, not at risk. It is certain, although when it happens is not yet known.

<p>I took pleasant back roads along the rail line to start, then back to the busier A2, the major road that follows the coast. Busier but still fine. There is often a shoulder to ride on. And traffic is respectful.</p>
<enhanced:img
  src="../../../lib/images/2024/01/20240124-225731.jpg"
  alt="Blue Catholic church"
/>

Although Sri Lanka is largely Buddhist, early Portuguese sailors (Vasco de Gama?) visited and many locals became Catholic. In some cases, in India, it was to escape the burden of being low caste. I remember in Goa that many of the nameplates above front doors proclaimed that somebody Fernandes lived there. Most of the Catholic churches I'd noticed were modern, unspectacular affairs but this one, down a side road from the A2, was different and caught my eye.

The evening before I had noticed that the moon looked almost full. Today, seeing crowds in white outside a temple in a town I was passing through, I remembered that today, the 25th, was full moon day. Poya days are celebrated are public holidays for government workers and, as I was to find, for many restaurants.

<p>My route, generated by the Komoot app, occasionally diverted me off the main road. But then its recommendations frequently became a fiction. I followed one long straight road until a grandiose large steel gate barred further progress. The Taj, I was told, and I couldn't go through. Not that I looked a likely candidate for staying in such an opulent/expensive hotel.</p>

One detour took me on a climb through progressively narrower lanes until they ended, despite what Komoot promised.

<p>Another detour took me to a railway crossing where there was an appreciable wait with traffic halted. Then the train arrived and parked just in front of the waiting traffic. I could feel the sun burning down, frying flesh.</p>
<enhanced:img
  src="../../../lib/images/2024/01/20240125-222208.jpg"
  alt="Roadside Buddhist temple"
/>
<div class="caption">A temporarily parked train</div>

These detours, generally away from the coast, involved unnecessary climbing, I decided, and stuck with the A2 for the rest of the day.

<p>I paused to investigate one of the many beaches that I'd had tantalising glimpses of from the road. Beautiful, and virtually empty.</p>
<enhanced:img
  src="../../../lib/images/2024/01/20240125-225317.jpg"
  alt="One of many beautiful beaches"
/>
<enhanced:img
  src="../../../lib/images/2024/01/20240125-225433.jpg"
  alt="One of many beautiful beaches"
/>

<p>I found a barbershop/salon and had my beard removed. I wanted the hair on the top of my head thinned, too. Pretty much a buzz cut now but trivial to maintain. "Severe" commented my brother when he saw a photo. "Well, it'll grow back" I replied. Until it doesn't, I supposed. At 71, I shouldn't make these assumptions!</p>
<enhanced:img
  src="../../../lib/images/2024/01/20240125-234959.jpg"
  alt="Another roadside Buddhist shrine"
/>

I arrived in Ahungalla in the middle of the afternoon and checked into another spotless and spacious hotel. Which cost about C$13 for the night. Including breakfast. It sold itself as an ayurvedic centre but all I saw was a family home with a separate building with a few rooms. On the ground floor so easy to get my bike inside. But no restaurant so, after a rest, I went in search of food.

Not such an easy task on a Poya day. I walked quite a distance on my increasingly sore ankle (though fine for riding) before finding an overpriced tourist venue on the beach. Reggae music, of course. Jammin'

</section>

<section class="card">
<h5>
  	26th January, 2024
  	<br /> Ahungalla to Galle
  </h5>
  (52.1 km, 201 m, 151.3 km to date)

<p>This day passed in a bit of a blur. Not much stands out a few days later as I write this post.
And no photos to prompt my memory. A pleasant day, hot like the rest but they all will be, sticking to the A2 coast road. My Komoot-generated route showed lengthy detours inland that were longer and hillier. But I wasn't sure how far I'd get so I decided to stay on the main road where there would be hotels aplenty.</p>

<p>Since I was uncertain of my destination, I didn't book a place in the Galle Fort area &ndash; which seemed the place to be. When I neared Galle, I went to booking.com but my affordable options had disappeared. It was the weekend and it seemed that Sri Lankans like to visit Galle too. </p>
 
 <p>I settled for a highly rated homestay on the far side of Galle so I had to get through the city. The biggest place since Columbo and, late on a Friday afternoon, probably rush hour. Much stop and start but then a turn off the main road and onto quieter lanes. Hillier lanes. An extra ten kilometres from the centre of Galle.</p>

 <p>A nice house and garden, with a swimming pool. I nice hostess with limited English but her daughter had graduated in English, worked at the university in Colombo, and was looking for scholarships for a doctorate in number theory. I had asked her whether she was still in school...</p>

</section>

<section class="card">
<h5>
  Galle Fort<br/>
  27th January, 2024.
</h5><p/>
The PickMe app couldn't find me a tuktuk to get into town but a car wasn't much more. And he dropped me at the bank where I replenished my cash. Then walked around. Western tourists everywhere, stores selling tourist stuff along the narrow streets, restaurants, ... The usual accoutrements of a 'discovered' location. I'll bet it was nice forty years ago but had little charm for me today. I was soon ready for my tuktuk back to Villa Talpe.
<enhanced:img
  src="../../../lib/images/2024/01/20240127-005000.jpg"
  alt="Banyan tree"
/>
<div class="caption">A Banyan tree in Galle Fort</div>
<div class="w-90">
  <enhanced:img
    src="../../../lib/images/2024/01/20240127-005926.jpg"
    alt="Galle Lighthouse"
  />
  <div class="caption">Galle Lighthouse</div>
</div>
<enhanced:img
    src="../../../lib/images/2024/01/20240127-010852.jpg"
    alt="Galle Lighthouse"
/>
<enhanced:img
  src="../../../lib/images/2024/01/20240127-013806.jpg"
  alt="Tuktuk convoy"
/>
<div class="caption">A convoy of tuktuks in the narrow streets of the Galle Fort area</div>
<div class="w-90">
  <enhanced:img
    src="../../../lib/images/2024/01/20240127-014722.jpg"
    alt="A quiet street in Galle Fort"
  />
</div>
<enhanced:img
  src="../../../lib/images/2024/01/20240127-015242.jpg"
  alt="A Buddhist temple in Galle Fort"
/>
</section>

<style>
  .caption {
    margin-top: -1.5em;
  }
  p {
    margin: 0;
    margin-top: 0.5em;
  }
 
  picture + p {
    margin-top: -0.5em;
  }
 
</style>
